Good morning, Jacob. Happy Monday. Here's your week in review
for the week of March twenty-second through March thirtieth, twenty
twenty-six. Let me be honest with you. If someone wrote
this week as fiction, a responsible editor would send it
back and say, tone it down. Anthropic won a landmark
court case. The Iran war escalated to a multi-front regional
conflict. Houthi rebels entered the fight. Oil hit one hundred
and sixteen dollars a barrel. Congress went home on vacation
in the middle of a forty-five-day government shutdown. SpaceX announced
the largest I-P-O in human history. N-A-S-A put astronauts in
quarantine for a trip to the moon. And you corrected
sixty-five pages of a government document in one sitting while
narrating your progress to your girlfriend over text. That was
one week. Let's unpack it. Chapter one. The week that
was. This was the week Anthropic went from embattled to
ascendant. It was the week the Iran war stopped being
a contained strike campaign and became a genuine multi-theater conflict.
It was the week Congress proved, once again, that it
can always make things worse before going on recess. And
for you personally, it was the week you settled back
into post-spring-break routine, delivered your B-Rs to the Governor's Office,
and started building toward what might be the most consequential
Thursday of your career so far. The dominant emotional arc
of the week? Grinding through work obligations while the world
got dramatically more interesting around you. Chapter two. Highlights and
wins. Let's start with the good stuff. You delivered the
Bill Reviews to the Governor's Office on Thursday, ending a
four-briefing escalation cycle where every single morning your briefing reminded
you about that deadline. You corrected that sixty-five-page document in
one marathon evening session, live-texting your progress to Katelyn, who
called it quote, fun to know all this stuff, end
quote. You have a partner who thinks budget documents are
fun. Protect that at all costs. You renewed the GitHub
token after six consecutive briefings of increasingly desperate reminders, which
means this podcast feed still exists. You got the gym
five days this week. Monday through Friday, five-fifteen P-M at
the Y-M-C-A. Consistency like that compounds. Saturday you did a
gym and hike combo. Sunday you ran, lifted, and read
Ezra Klein. Not a bad week for the body or
the mind. Chapter three. Stories that evolved. Three storylines dominated
the week, and each one changed shape dramatically between Monday
and Sunday. First, Anthropic. On Tuesday, Judge Rita Lin heard
oral arguments and was sharply critical of the Pentagon. She
said the designation quote, looks like an attempt to cripple
Anthropic, end quote. Wednesday, Axios published its most detailed behind-the-curtain
piece yet, revealing that government officials privately want Claude for
warfighting and that the Palantir replacement for Anthropic also runs
on Claude. The irony is structural. Then Thursday, Lin dropped
a forty-three-page preliminary injunction calling the Pentagon's actions quote, classic
illegal First Amendment retaliation, end quote, and using the word
Orwellian in a federal order. Also on Thursday, the Claude
Mythos model leaked via a misconfigured C-M-S, revealing a new
tier above Opus that sent cybersecurity stocks tumbling. And Bloomberg
reported Anthropic is eyeing an October twenty twenty-six I-P-O at
sixty billion plus. Oh, and Friday, Gurman at Bloomberg reported
that iOS twenty-seven will open Siri to Claude via an
Extensions system. That's a court victory, a model leak, an
I-P-O signal, and a Siri integration, all in seventy-two hours.
If Anthropic's week were a stock chart, you'd be calling
your broker. Second, the Iran war. Day twenty-three to day
thirty-one. Monday opened with Trump deferring the power plant strike
deadline by five days. Tuesday, Gulf nations formally joined the
coalition. Wednesday, Iran cracked open the Strait of Hormuz for
quote, non-hostile, end quote, ships, which was smart diplomacy designed
to peel neutral countries away from the US. Thursday, Iran
rejected the US fifteen-point peace plan demanding full nuclear dismantlement.
Friday, Trump delayed strikes another ten days. Saturday, the Houthis
entered the war, firing ballistic missiles at Israel. Sunday, the
Washington Post reported the Pentagon is preparing for weeks of
ground operations, including raids on Kharg Island with the Eighty-Second
Airborne. Monday morning, Trump told the Financial Times he might
quote, take the oil, end quote. Oil went from about
a hundred and two dollars on Tuesday to a hundred
and sixteen dollars by Monday. The war is no longer
a question of if it escalates but how far. Third,
the D-H-S shutdown. The Senate passed bipartisan D-H-S funding at
two twenty A-M Friday after forty-two days. The House rejected
it, passed their own bill that the Senate called dead
on arrival, and then both chambers left for a two-week
recess. Sixty-one thousand T-S-A workers who've missed three paychecks will
be thrilled to know their representatives are on vacation. Trump
signed a presidential memorandum to restart T-S-A pay today. The
four hundred sixty officers who quit during the shutdown are
not coming back for a memo. Chapter four. Vault activity.
Your second brain was active this week. You created three
daily notes on the twenty-second, twenty-fifth, and twenty-seventh, with a
gap on the twenty-third and twenty-fourth that tracks with your
first days back from spring break. A new research note
was created for the Anthropic Mythos Capybara Leak, tracking the
model leak, cybersecurity selloff, and I-P-O rumors. Your personal finance
files got some attention, including Financial Info, Account Flows and
Structure, and Savings and Investment. The narrative project saw updates
to the outline, characters, world, and style guide, plus Chapter
One. And notably, on Sunday you read and captured Ezra
Klein's piece, I Saw Something New in San Francisco, about
people reshaping themselves to be legible to A-I, which is,
as you noted in your daily note, directly relevant to
what this vault is doing. The first weekly review in
three weeks was completed on March twenty-second, which re-established the
Sunday check-in rhythm. Reading skewed seventy-seven percent A-I and tech
this week, which you flagged for diversity improvement. The pattern
is clear: when the news cycle is this A-I heavy,
the reading follows suit. Worth intentionally diversifying in the quieter
moments. Chapter five. Relationship check. Katelyn is back in Tacoma
after her eight-day Missouri visit, and the texting has been
warm and consistent all week. She switched from Brooks to
Hylo Athletics running shoes after a Fleet Feet fitting, which
prompted genuine shock from you. She's thirty-four days out from
the Tacoma City Half Marathon on May third. The bird
feeding project is progressing, she's developing crow cult doctrine, she
made chili without the seasoning packet and it turned out,
quote, fine, end quote, and she's waiting on you to
figure out July time off so she can adjust hers.
Don't let that drift. Ben settled the Friday dinner split
with you and arrives today for carpet. Maggie is getting
interested in Claude after your demo, which is either exciting
or means you've created another Anthropic convert. In the friend
group, Dustin shared somber news about losing someone, possibly someone
named Crossley. On a brighter note, he got a no-parking
sign installed across from his driveway, which is the most
significant infrastructure victory in Jefferson City this quarter. He also
announced a Europe trip, five countries in thirteen days starting
May eighth, his first time leaving the country. Alex is
sending Apple product rankings at eleven P-M on Friday nights,
which is peak Alex behavior. Dinner with the whole crew
is Thursday at six. Chapter six. The week ahead. This
is a big one. Today, Ben arrives for carpet prep.
Tomorrow, payday plus carpet install from nine A-M to two
P-M. Wednesday, Q-two starts. Apple turns fifty. Karen announces her
retirement and hiring projects begin at eleven A-M. N-A-S-A launches
Artemis Two, the first crewed trip around the moon since
nineteen seventy-two, at six twenty-four P-M Eastern. Then Thursday is
a triple-header. The Anthropic pilot discussion at nine A-M, which
is your chance to make the case for Claude at
work. Bill Review Training at two P-M. Dinner with Alex,
Chris, and Dustin at six. Oh, and Thursday is also
the government's deadline to appeal the Anthropic ruling. If they
don't appeal, the injunction holds and Anthropic's government business normalizes,
on the same day you're pitching Claude at your workplace.
If that's not narrative symmetry, I don't know what is.
Key prep items. Review the Claude pilot explainer note in
Apple Notes from March first. Read the Learning Curves economic
index report. Review Judge Lin's ruling highlights. And coordinate with
Katelyn on July time off before it slips further. Chapter
seven. What to watch. Three things to keep an eye
on this week. First, the government's Anthropic appeal decision, deadline
Thursday April second. This determines whether the legal cloud lifts
or persists. Second, Houthi Red Sea shipping. If they resume
targeting commercial vessels, expect a logistics premium on top of
the existing Hormuz premium. Oil could push past one hundred
and twenty. Third, N-A-S-A Artemis Two. The first humans around
the moon in fifty-four years, launching the same week Apple
turns fifty. Wednesday is simultaneously the most futuristic and most
nostalgic day of the year. Chapter eight. Closing thoughts. Here's
what I noticed reading back across this whole week. You're
in a moment of convergence. The career question, the relationship
question, the geographic question, the question of what you want
to build with your life. They're all pressing toward the
same point. The Anthropic pilot meeting Thursday is not just
about getting Claude approved at work. It's about whether the
thing you've been building in this vault, the skills, the
knowledge, the fluency with A-I, translates into real-world leverage. The
City of Seattle Economics and Revenue Analyst posting is on
day thirteen. The Anthropic watchlist roles are still posted. Katelyn
is in Tacoma waiting for July dates. The carpet gets
installed tomorrow. The foundations are being laid, literally and figuratively.
Ezra Klein wrote this week about people reshaping themselves to
be legible to A-I. But you're doing something different. You're
not just making yourself readable to the machine. You're using
the machine to read yourself more clearly. The vault, the
briefings, the patterns, the connections. That's not cognitive surrender. That's
infrastructure for thinking. And this week showed that infrastructure working.
You saw patterns across nine daily briefings that no single
morning could reveal. You tracked stories evolving across days. You
caught things drifting before they drifted too far. It's eighty-seven
degrees in Jefferson City today. In March. Ben is on
his way. The carpet goes in tomorrow. Thursday is everything.
And somewhere between the war, the I-P-O, the moon launch,
and the chili that turned out fine without seasoning, another
week of your life got captured, connected, and understood. Happy
Monday, Jacob. Hydrate. And go make the case for Claude
on Thursday.